Finding a Return Address
We can still store our shellcode at the
address pointed to by ESP,
but we need a consistent way to get that
code executed.
One solution is to leverage a JMP ESP
instruction,
which as the name suggests, “jumps” to the
address pointed to by ESP
when it executes.
If we can find a reliable, static address
that contains this instruction,
we can redirect EIP to this address and at
the time of the crash,
the JMP ESP instruction will be executed.
This “indirect jump” will lead the
execution flow into our shellcode.
Many support libraries in Windows
contain this commonly-used instruction
but we need to find a reference that meets
certain criteria.
First, the addresses used in the library
must be static,
which eliminates libraries compiled with
ASLR support.
Secondly, the address of the instruction
must not contain any of the bad characters
that would break the exploit, since the
address itself
will be part of our input buffer.
We can use the Immunity Debugger script,
mona.py,
developed by the Corelan team, to begin
our return address search.
First we will request information about
all DLLs (or modules)
loaded by SyncBreeze into the process
memory space with mona modules.
The columns in this output include the
current memory location
in other words, the base and top
addresses,
the size of the module,
several flags,
and the module version, name, and path.
From the flags in this output, we can see
that the Sync Breeze executable has
SafeSEH, ASLR, and NXCompat disabled.
In other words, the executable has not
been compiled
with any memory protection schemes, and
will always reliably load
at the same address, making it ideal for
our purposes.
However, it always loads at the base
address 00 40 00 00,
meaning all instruction addresses will
contain null characters,
which are not suitable for our buffer.
Searching through the output, we find that
LIBSSP.DLL also suits our needs
and the address range doesn’t seem to
contain bad characters.
This is perfect for our needs.
Now we need to find the address of a
naturally-occurring
JMP ESP instruction within this module.
We could use native commands within the
Immunity Debugger to search for our
JMP ESP, but the search would have to be
performed on multiple data areas
inside the DLL.
Instead, we can use mona.py to perform an
exhaustive search for the binary
or hexadecimal representation (or opcode)
of the assembly instruction.
To find the opcode equivalent of JMP ESP,
we can use the Metasploit NASM Shell
ruby script, msf-nasm_shell.
To make use of this tool,
we simply need to enter the instruction
we’re interested in.
The NASM shell tells us that the opcode we
need to search for is FF E4.
We can search for JMP ESP using the hex
representation of the opcode
in all sections of LIBSSP.DLL with
mona find.
We will specify the content of the search
with -s
and the escaped value of the opcode’s hex
string.
We also provide the name of the required
module with the -m option.
In this example, the output reveals one
address containing a JMP ESP instruction,
and fortunately, the address does not
contain any of our bad characters.
To view the contents of this address in
the disassembler window,
while execution is paused,
we will click the “Go to address in
Disassembler” button
and enter the address.
From here we can see that it does indeed
translate to a JMP ESP instruction.
If we redirect EIP to this address at the time of the crash,
the JMP ESP instruction will be executed,
which will lead the execution flow into
our shellcode.
Before inspecting our next proof of
concept,
we’ll restart and re-attach our debugger.
We’ll also set a breakpoint on our return
address
in order to follow the execution of the
JMP ESP instruction.
We can set this breakpoint by pressing F2.
Now we’ll let the application run with F9
and return to Kali.
We have updated our eip variable to
reflect the address of the
JMP ESP instruction.
Note that the address is in reverse order.
This is because of endian byte order.
The operating system can store addresses
and data in memory in different formats.
Generally speaking, the format used to
store addresses in memory
depends on the architecture the operating
system is running on.
Little endian is the most widely-used
format,
while big endian was historically used by
the Sparc and PowerPC architectures.
In little endian format the low-order byte
of the number
is stored in memory at the lowest address,
and the high-order byte at the highest
address.
Therefore, we have to store the return
address in reverse order in our buffer
for the CPU to interpret it correctly in
memory.
Now let’s try out this latest proof of
concept.
Our debugger shows that we did in fact
reach our JMP ESP
and hit the breakpoint we previously set.
Pressing F7 in the debugger will
single-step into our shellcode
placeholder, which is currently just a
bunch of D’s.
Great! Now we just need to generate
working shellcode
and our exploit will be complete.
Let’s reset our environment.
We’ll set our breakpoint on the JMP ESP
instruction again,
and let it run.